---
title: 'Understanding Asset Prices'
permalink: /posts/2012/08/blog-post-1/
date: 2024.12.22
---

If you are beginning your journey into financial econometrics and empirical asset pricing, [the document prepared by the Economic Sciences Prize Committee of the Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences](https://www.nobelprize.org/uploads/2013/10/advanced-economicsciences2013.pdf) is an invaluable resource. This comprehensive work elegantly summarizes the groundbreaking contributions of Eugene Fama, Lars Peter Hansen, and Robert Shiller to our understanding of asset prices.

**From the perspective of time-series dynamics**, the document highlights how Fama's research in the 1970s established the foundational consensus that **short-term** stock returns are unpredictable. Moving into the 1980s, Shiller demonstrated the **long-term** predictability of stock returns, uncovering economically significant patterns that implied substantial time variation in discount factors. This revelation spurred the adoption of the consumption-based capital asset pricing model (CCAPM) to explain excess variability in stochastic discount factors. However, estimating the **non-linear CCAPM equation** was challenging until Hansen introduced the **Generalized Method of Moments (GMM)**, enabling robust estimations. Despite these advancements, the variability in discount factors remained inadequately explained until Shiller leveraged **behavioral finance** to provide a compelling interpretation of market fluctuations.

**From the perspective of cross-sectional patterns**, Fama pioneered the two-pass regression methodology, known as the **Fama-MacBeth regression**, to address cross-sectional dependence in asset pricing models. He further advanced the field with his renowned **three-factor model**, which addressed anomalies that the traditional CAPM failed to explain, significantly enriching our understanding of the U.S. stock market.

This document offers a panoramic view of the evolution of empirical asset pricing over the past six decades, showcasing how the seminal contributions of Fama, Shiller, and Hansen have reshaped the field.

Given its depth and breadth, the document is quite extensive. To support readers, I have created a [mind map](../assets/1.png) to outline its core ideas and logical flow. Moreover, I translated the theoretical background section into [Chinese](../assets/理论背景.pdf) and supplemented the derivation process between equations to enhance understanding. I highly recommend diving into this document to deepen your appreciation for the pivotal advances in asset pricing research. If you have any insights or reflections on this document, feel free to share them with me—I’d love to hear your thoughts! :)
